---
layout: simon-default
title: Change Log
root-url: ../
simon-tab-class: tabbar-tab-highlighted
---
h1. Version 0.1.9, Aug 2012

* Incremented minor version to 0.2.0 because we are adding HTTP functionality for CI build boxes.
* Added the boolean property logActions to enabled/isable logging of actions to help debug.
* Modifed the startup so that the SIAppBackpack is automatically loaded when the runtime starts. This removes the need to manually inject it in the main.m file.
* Added a --autorun program argument which can be used to start the stories from running on startup. Otherwise a Ui is displayed.
* Changed startup so that instead of loading the UI by default, it now starts a HTTP server which waits for commands.
* Added isEmpty method to NSString+Simon category.
* Implemented better filtering function for the UI display.
* Seperated the UIAppBackpack into UI and Http versions.
* Now storing state in a separate class rather than in variables.
* Refactored all the notifications and UI handling code.
* Added source, story, error code and message properties to userData associated with various notifications.
* Refactored UI methods for triggering runs.
* Added return NSError to loadStories method.

h1. Version 0.1.8, April 2012

* Moved execution recording and exception handling to SIStory to facilitate better reporting.
* Refactoring the backpack and runner to enable running of individual tests.
* Revamped UI for a better summary.
* Refactored so that the UI can be displayed without running tests.
* Added a search bar to the story report.
* Added ability to rerun all tests and search test file names and titles.


h1. Version 0.1.7, March 2012

* Added a macro: SIIsViewPresent.
* Renamed SITapControl to SITapView.
* Renamed SISWipeControl to SISWipeView.
* Modded SITapView to accept both a NSString *query and a UIView *view as a parameter and to return the view it tapped.
* Modded SISwipeView to accept both a NSString *query and a UIView *view as a parameter and to return the view it swiped.
* Cleaned up some old references in SIUIApplication.
* Added new macros SIAssertViewPresent and SIAssertViewNotPresent.
* Added new macro SIAssertLabelTextEquals.
* Fixed issue where creating UITouch and UIEvents on a background thread would trigger a 0xbbadbeef crash.
* Refactored SIUIEventGenerator into an abstract class. 
* Updated logging of UI to include all windows being displayed. This now picks up the keyboard.
* Refactored event sending code and background sending detection. Now a lot simpler due to using blocks.
* Removed caching of view handers because we simply don't need it. Also made code simpler.
* Added the SIEnterText macro.
* New dNodi query attributes: protocol and isKindOfClass.
* Moved processing of runtime and mappings out of the SIStoryReader.
* Created a SIStorySources class to manage SIStorySource instances and handle selections.
* Refactored SIAppBackpack out to SIUIAppBackpack and SIHttpAppBackpack.

h1. Version 0.1.6, March 2012

* Added more data to the display of a UI tree by breaking out the visitor code using the visitor pattern and delegate pattern.
* Added handlers for UIButtons and UILabels so that the print tree function can work better.
* Added label text, button titles, UIView tags, accessibility Identifiers, values and labels as attributes to be printed.
* Updated dNodi to 0.3.4 to fix issues with name clashes on properties of nodes.
* Added a new macro which waits for animations to finish on a specific UIView.

h1. Version 0.1.5, March 2012

* Switched in app report to avoid using the root view controller because not every app has one.

h1. Version 0.1.4, March 2012

* Fixed missing header. 
* Adjusted so that macros work in ARC projects.
* Added ARC based test project.

h1. Version 0.1.3, Febuary 2012

* Rewrote the class scanning to be more reliable when analysing classes for find mappings.
* Refactored the touch synthesis code.
* Added swipe gestures.

h1. Version 0.1.2, Feburary 2012

* Updated dUsefulStuff to obtain access to a better error handling routine.
* Added KVC complient view attribute analysis.
* Adding assert macros.
* Added new in app display of results.
* Injected SIStepMapping into implementation classes storage area before call so class can access it. Mainly for testing.
* Revamped output of reporting in log.
* Updated to use dNodi (replacement for DXPath).
* More work on UI utils.
* More work on macros. Added assert macros.
* Added shutdown button to in app report to shutdown Simon.
* Added a UI based report for viewing results.
* Lots more doco.
* Removed passing a file to the backpack startup macro. Not really that useful.
* Removed dependency on -all_load for categories as latest linkers no longer need it.
* Got search attributes working with KVC values for UIViews.
* Added basic shortcut macros for tapping.
* Added custom exceptions.

h1. Version 0.1.1, July 2011

* Brought in dXPath to handle XPath queries against a UI.
* Fixed bug in stripping story: prefix.

h1. Version 0.1.0, July 2011

* Initial release of code. See Readme.